
SylkServer
----------

Copyright (c) 2010-2012 AG Projects
http://ag-projects.com

Main author: Saul Ibarra
Mentorship: Adrian Georgescu
Contributors: Denis Bilenko, Dan Pascu

Home page: http://sylkserver.com


License
-------

SylkServer is licensed under GNU General Public License version 3. A copy of
the license is available at http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl-3.0.html


Description
-----------

SylkServer is a SIP application server that can be programmed to perform SIP
end-point applications.

The server has support for SIP signaling over TLS, TCP and UDP transports,
RTP and MSRP media planes, capability for creating ad-hoc SIP multimedia
conferences with HD Audio, IM and File Transfer and can be easily extended
with other applications.


Deployment
----------

SylkServer is typically deployed behind a SIP Proxy that is designed to
route the inbound and outbound traffic, handle the authentication,
authorization and accounting.


Features
--------

SIP Signaling

 - TLS, TCP and UDP transports
 - INVITE and REFER
 - SUBSCRIBE/NOTIFY
 - Protocol tracing

NAT Traversal

 - SIP Outbound
 - ICE and STUN
 - MSRP Relay
 - MSRP ACM

Audio

 - Wideband (G722 and Speex)
 - Narrowband (G711 and GSM)
 - sRTP encryption
 - Hold/Unhold
 - RTP timeout
 - DTMF handling
 
Instant Messaging

 - MSRP protocol
 - CPIM envelope
 - Is-composing
 - Delivery reports

File Transfer

 - MSRP protocol
 - Progress reports
 - Conference-info extension
 - Conference room persistent

Conferencing

 - Wideband RTP mixer
 - MSRP switch
 - Multiparty screensharing
 - Conference event package
 - Add/remove participants

XMPP Gateway

 - Server to Server mode
 - IM (Chat sessions and Message instances)
 - Presence translation


Applications
------------

Conference

SylkServer allows SIP end-points to create ad-hoc conference rooms by
sending INVITE to a random username at the hostname or domain where the
server runs.  Other participants can then join by sending an INVITE to the
same SIP URI used to create the room.  The INVITE and subsequent re-INVITE
methods may contain one or more media types supported by the server.  Each
conference room mixed audio, instant messages and uploded files are
dispatched to all participants.  One can remove or add participants by
sending a REFER method to the conference URI.

If a participant sends a file to the SIP URI of the room, the server will
accept it, store it for the duration of the conference and offer it to all
participants either present at that moment, or offer it on demand to those
that have joined the conference at a later moment.


XMPP Gateway

SylkServer can act as a transparent gateway between SIP and XMPP protocols. 
This can be used by a SIP service provider to bridge out to XMPP domains or
to receive incoming requests from XMPP domains to its local SIP users.  In a
similar fashion, a XMPP service provider can use the gateway to bridge out
to SIP domains and handle incoming requestes from SIP domains to the XMPP
users it serves.

A media session or a presence session initiated by an incoming connection on
the XMPP side is translated into an outgoing request on the SIP side and the
other way around.  To make this possible, proper SIP or XMPP records must
exists into the DNS zone for the domain that needs the gateway service.


Standards
---------

The server implements relevant features from the following standards:

 - SIP (RFC3261) and related RFCs for DNS, ICE and RTP
 - MSRP protocol RFC4975
 - MSRP relay extension RFC4976
 - MSRP File Transfer RFC5547
 - MSRP switch draft-ietf-simple-chat-12
 - MSRP Alternative Connection Model RFC6135
 - Indication of Message Composition RFC3994
 - CPIM Message Format RFC3862
 - Conference event package RFC4575
 - A Framework for Conferencing with SIP RFC4353
 - Conferencing for User Agents RFC4579
 - Conferencing for User Agents RFC4579
   5.1  INVITE: Joining a Conference Using the Conference URI - Dial-In
   5.2  INVITE: Adding a Participant by the Focus - Dial-Out
   5.5  REFER: Requesting a Focus to Add a New Resource to a Conference
   5.11 REFER with BYE: Requesting a Focus to Remove a Participant from a Conference
 - XMPP core (RFC 6120) http://xmpp.org/rfcs/rfc6120.html
 - XMPP extensions http://xmpp.org/xmpp-protocols/xmpp-extensions
 - Instant Messaging and Presence http://xmpp.org/rfcs/rfc6121.html
 - Interworking between the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the
   Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP):
   http://xmpp.org/internet-drafts/draft-saintandre-sip-xmpp-presence-02.html
 - Interworking between the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the
   Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP):
   http://xmpp.org/internet-drafts/draft-saintandre-sip-xmpp-im-01.html
 - Interworking between the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the
   Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP):
   http://xmpp.org/internet-drafts/draft-saintandre-sip-xmpp-chat-03.html


Support
-------

The project is developed and supported by AG Projects. The support is
provided on a best-effort basis. "best-effort" means that we try to solve
the bugs you report or help fix your problems as soon as we can, subject to
available resources.

To request support you must the use SIP Beyond VoIP mailing list:

http://lists.ag-projects.com/mailman/listinfo/sipbeyondvoip

For commercial support contact AG Projects http://ag-projects.com


Credits
-------

Special thanks to NLNET http://nlnet.nl for sponsoring most of the efforts
behind this project.

